Melbourne University Internet Usage Meter
-----------------------------------------

Outline
=======

The source code to the Melbourne University internet usage meter. Every week,
staff and students could download only 1GB through the university proxy. This
tool was created to allow staff and students to track their usage.

The site can be found [here](http://meter.studentit.unimelb.edu.au)

Unfortunately the site is still hosted through the HTTP rather than the HTTPS
protocol. This was out of my control, the people in charge of hosting had said
they would look into it; that was in 2011.

Implementation
==============

The implementation is very simple. The site is written in PHP, mainly because
that is the only language that the university's central IT agreed to host.

The site prompts users to log in with their university account. It authenticates
these against the University LDAP server.

It then connects to an oracle server that hosts usage data, finds the data
relevant to the authenticated user, and servers that back to the user.

Background
==========

The site was first written in March 2011. Since then it underwent a facelift
when the university decided to rebrand its pages. I created a separate
repository for GitHub and removed 'sensitive' information from the source code. 

As of mid 2013 Wireless traffic no longer goes through the university proxy;
however, one can imagine with the advent of youtube, 1GB was not enough for most
students.

As a front line IT support attached to the libraries, we frequently received
questions and complaints regarding students' access to the internet. Even though
some knew of the weekly 1GB limit, there was no way to check whether
connectivity issues were caused because of it.

The central IT division was supposed to create one, but it never eventuated so I
proposed that I create one in the mean time. After the initial success of the
Availability system, and the lack of internal progress, the higher ups in the
central IT division were happy to facilitate access to the data.

After the site was finished, I proposed that the internet usage meter be
integrated into the Student Portal a central site for students to access their
email, and update enrolment and personal details. This was well received, and
late in 2013 I was asked by a Student Portal developer where the data resides.
